docs: documentation of NetworkService-based protocol module (#18952)
electron/electron: docs/api/protocol-ns.md

> # protocolNS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# `NetworkService` Protocol
```

Author: The documentation linter and generator use this title as object name, spaces and special characters can not be used here.

> This document describes the new protocol APIs based on NetworkService.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document describes the new protocol APIs based on the [NetworkService](https://www.chromium.org/servicification).
```

> Currently we don't have an estimate of when will we enable NetworkService by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We don't currently have an estimate of when we will enable `NetworkService` by
```

> We don't currently have an estimate of when we will enable `NetworkService` by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We don't currently have an estimate of when we will enable the `NetworkService` by
```

> default in Electron, but as Chromium is already removing non-NetworkService

Reviewer: ```suggestion
default in Electron, but as Chromium is already removing non-`NetworkService`
```

> code, the switch may come after a few major version releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
code, we might switch before Electron 10.
```

See above: I'm not sure if that's the right number, but we should use something we don't have to update.

> code, we might switch before Electron 10.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
code, we will probably switch before Electron 10.
```

> The content of this document should be moved to `protocol.md` after it is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The content of this document should be moved to `protocol.md` after we have
```

> determined when to enable NetworkService in Electron.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
determined when to enable `NetworkService` in Electron.
```

> determined when to enable `NetworkService` in Electron.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
enabled the `NetworkService` by default in Electron.
```

> Register a custom protocol and intercept existing protocol requests.

Process: [Main](../glossary.md#main-process)

An example of implementing a protocol that has the same effect as the
`file://` protocol:

```javascript

> const { app, protocol } = require('electron')

Reviewer 2: Is it actually exposed on `electron.protocol`?  If so the documentation generator might need some modifications because currently it is inferring the include path as `electron.protocolNS`

Reviewer 3: Yup it will be still `electron.protocol` just creates a different class internally based on availability of network service.

Author: How about adding a way in documentation generator to ignore the module? For example ignoring titles like `# protocol (Draft)`.

Author: @MarshallOfSound I have updated the docs parser to ignore the NetworkService draft docs.

`electron.protocol.XXX`.

To have your custom protocol work in combination with a custom session, you need
to register it to that session explicitly.

```javascript
const { session, app, protocol } = require('electron')
const path = require('path')

app.on('ready', () => {
  const partition = 'persist:example'
  const ses = session.fromPartition(partition)

  ses.protocol.registerFileProtocol('atom', (request, callback) => {
    const url = request.url.substr(7)
    callback({ path: path.normalize(`${__dirname}/${url}`) })
  })

  mainWindow = new BrowserWindow({ webPreferences: { partition } })
})
```

## Methods

The `protocol` module has the following methods:

### `protocol.registerSchemesAsPrivileged(customSchemes)`

* `customSchemes` [CustomScheme[]](structures/custom-scheme.md)

**Note:** This method can only be used before the `ready` event of the `app`
module gets emitted and can be called only once.

Registers the `scheme` as standard, secure, bypasses content security policy for
resources, allows registering ServiceWorker and supports fetch API. Specify a
privilege with the value of `true` to enable the capability.

> An example of registering a privileged scheme, with bypassing Content Security

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example of registering a privileged scheme, that bypasses Content Security
```

Policy:

```javascript
const { protocol } = require('electron')
protocol.registerSchemesAsPrivileged([
  { scheme: 'foo', privileges: { bypassCSP: true } }
])
```

A standard scheme adheres to what RFC 3986 calls [generic URI
syntax](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986#section-3). For example `http` and
`https` are standard schemes, while `file` is not.

> Registering a scheme as standard, will allow relative and absolute resources to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Registering a scheme as standard allows relative and absolute resources to
```

This is incorrect in the [original](https://github.com/electron/electron/blob/v6.0.0-beta.10/docs/api/protocol.md), too, but I thought I'd fix it here nevertheless.

be resolved correctly when served. Otherwise the scheme will behave like the
`file` protocol, but without the ability to resolve relative URLs.

For example when you load following page with custom protocol without
registering it as standard scheme, the image will not be loaded because
non-standard schemes can not recognize relative URLs:

```html
<body>
  <img src='test.png'>
</body>
```

Registering a scheme as standard will allow access to files through the
[FileSystem API][file-system-api]. Otherwise the renderer will throw a security
error for the scheme.

By default web storage apis (localStorage, sessionStorage, webSQL, indexedDB,
cookies) are disabled for non standard schemes. So in general if you want to
register a custom protocol to replace the `http` protocol, you have to register
it as a standard scheme.

### `protocol.registerFileProtocol(scheme, handler)`

* `scheme` String
* `handler` Function
  * `request` ProtocolRequest
  * `callback` Function
    * `response` (String | [ProtocolResponse](structures/protocol-response.md))

> Registers a protocol of `scheme` that will send the file as a response. The

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Registers a protocol of `scheme` that will send a file as the response. The
```

> `handler` will be called with `handler(request, callback)` when a `request` is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`handler` will be called with `request` and `callback` where `request` is
```

> going to be created with `scheme`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
an incoming request for the `scheme`.
```

> To handle the `request`, the `callback` should be called with either the file's

Reviewer 2: Does this file path have to be absolute? If so we should document that

Author: It must be absolute, to match old API's behavior. I have added document for it.

* `scheme` String
* `handler` Function
  * `request` ProtocolRequest
  * `callback` Function
    * `response` (String | [ProtocolResponse](structures/protocol-response.md))

Registers a protocol of `scheme` that will send a `String` as a response.

The usage is the same with `registerFileProtocol`, except that the `callback`
should be called with either a `String` or an object that has the `data`
property.

### `protocol.registerHttpProtocol(scheme, handler)`

* `scheme` String
* `handler` Function
  * `request` ProtocolRequest
  * `callback` Function
    * `response` ProtocolResponse

Registers a protocol of `scheme` that will send an HTTP request as a response.

The usage is the same with `registerFileProtocol`, except that the `callback`
should be called with an object that has the `url` property.

### `protocol.registerStreamProtocol(scheme, handler)`

* `scheme` String
* `handler` Function
  * `request` ProtocolRequest
  * `callback` Function
    * `response` (ReadableStream | [ProtocolResponse](structures/protocol-response.md))

Registers a protocol of `scheme` that will send a stream as a response.

The usage is the same with `registerFileProtocol`, except that the

> `callback` should be called with either a `Readable` object or an object that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`callback` should be called with either a [`ReadableStream`](https://nodejs.org/api/stream.html#stream_class_stream_readable) object or an object that
```
